pages/index.md, before:

## dYdX Chain Software Documentation

The most recent setup guides for how to use the dYdX Chain open-source software, as well as the netwrok parameters for `dydx-mainnet-1` are currently hosted by dYdX Trading Inc. at [docs.dydx.exchange](https://docs.dydx.exchange/).

The dYdX Operations subDAO is committed to actively enhancing the documentation by contributing updates to the associated public repository located at https://github.com/dydxprotocol/v4-documentation.

## dYdX Chain: Open-Source Software

The dYdX Chain open-source software, developed by dYdX Trading Inc., is available on GitHub at https://github.com/dydxprotocol/v4-chain.

## Validator Slack Connect: Agreement and Onboarding

If you are a validator keen on collaborating with other `dydx-mainnet-1` validators via Slack Connect, please first read the v4 software (“dYdX Chain”) [Terms of Use](https://dydx.exchange/v4-terms) and express your agreement by filling out [this form](https://forms.gle/ywz8wJfaK7j4jDRN7).

## Engaging with dYdX

For further engagement and discussions, you are encouraged to visit the dYdX forum at https://dydx.forum.

For any inquiries or additional support, feel free to reach out through the channels provided on the dYdX forum, or join our community on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/dydx). Your contribution and involvement are highly valued as we collectively work towards a decentralized and efficient dYdX ecosystem.

To learn more about the dYdX Operations subDAO, or to get involved, please visit http://dydxopsdao.com.

🦔 💜

***All of the above third parties, including dYdX Trading Inc., are independent from and unaffiliated with dYdX Operations Services Ltd. ("DOS"), and DOS is not responsible for any action taken by such third parties, including content set forth on any third-party websites, such as any links to such content on this page. By using, recording, referencing, or downloading (i.e., any “action”) any information contained on this page or in any DOS database, you hereby and thereby agree to the [dYdX Chain Docs Terms of Use](./terms_and_policies/terms_of_use) governing such information, and you agree that such action establishes a binding agreement between you and DOS.***

Commit message:

Fix homepage title tag (#47)
* fix: typo on index.md
* set title and description meta for homepage

pages/index.md, after:

---
title: dYdX Chain Docs
description: Official documentation for dYdX Chain, including setup guides, API references, and more.
---
## dYdX Chain Software Documentation

The most recent setup guides for how to use the dYdX Chain open-source software, as well as the network parameters for `dydx-mainnet-1` are currently hosted by dYdX Trading Inc. at [docs.dydx.exchange](https://docs.dydx.exchange/).

The dYdX Operations subDAO is committed to actively enhancing the documentation by contributing updates to the associated public repository located at https://github.com/dydxprotocol/v4-documentation.

## dYdX Chain: Open-Source Software

The dYdX Chain open-source software, developed by dYdX Trading Inc., is available on GitHub at https://github.com/dydxprotocol/v4-chain.

## Validator Slack Connect: Agreement and Onboarding

If you are a validator keen on collaborating with other `dydx-mainnet-1` validators via Slack Connect, please first read the v4 software (“dYdX Chain”) [Terms of Use](https://dydx.exchange/v4-terms) and express your agreement by filling out [this form](https://forms.gle/ywz8wJfaK7j4jDRN7).

## Engaging with dYdX

For further engagement and discussions, you are encouraged to visit the dYdX forum at https://dydx.forum.

For any inquiries or additional support, feel free to reach out through the channels provided on the dYdX forum, or join our community on [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/dydx). Your contribution and involvement are highly valued as we collectively work towards a decentralized and efficient dYdX ecosystem.

To learn more about the dYdX Operations subDAO, or to get involved, please visit http://dydxopsdao.com.

🦔 💜

***All of the above third parties, including dYdX Trading Inc., are independent from and unaffiliated with dYdX Operations Services Ltd. ("DOS"), and DOS is not responsible for any action taken by such third parties, including content set forth on any third-party websites, such as any links to such content on this page. By using, recording, referencing, or downloading (i.e., any “action”) any information contained on this page or in any DOS database, you hereby and thereby agree to the [dYdX Chain Docs Terms of Use](./terms_and_policies/terms_of_use) governing such information, and you agree that such action establishes a binding agreement between you and DOS.***
